His entrance demonstrates everything you need to know about him. To a packed standing room audience at the Pitchfork Music Festival in 2019, he emerges from backstage, looking more like an introverted Facebook software engineer than a world-renowned rapper, hoodie up and backpack in tow. As the audience thunderously chants his name - Peggy! Peggy! Peggy! Peggy! - he’s hunched over behind a banquet table, unlocking his laptop and pulling up an Ableton session. Now sauntering out from behind the audio gear, we get a better look at his gait and the tech-worker aesthetic gives way to that of a boxer entering the ring for a championship bout. Finally breaking the tension, he gives himself an introduction: “My name is JPEG-motherfucking-MAFIA, and I put on my good corduroys just for y’all.” One more trip back to the computer to start the beat, and he’s off; his first bar is delivered as a scream while he sprints across the stage.

This is JPEGMAFIA: a restless tinkerer who can’t be tied down to one particular sound or aesthetic. He’s just as comfortable rapping with a hypermodern, triplety screamo-influenced flow over glitchy distorted beats as he is vibing over samples stitched together from the 1970s. His music deals in raw, unbridled energy, and his performance practices mirror his love for sonic chaos; he screams until his voice is raw, crowd-surfs and initiates mosh pits within the audience, and somehow has the stamina to be constantly running around the stage all the while. In the moments where he must briefly stop and catch his breath, he scales back the pandemonium to reveal a sly, deadpan sense of humor. While cheeky, his comment about “putting on [his] good corduroys” aptly summarizes his performance philosophy: just like an athlete, he’s going to leave everything he has out on the field.
